Incentive Compensation Management refers to designing, managing, and automating a company’s compensation plan for its sales force.
ICM helps companies manage how they reward employees—especially sales teams—based on their performance. 
Instead of manually calculating commissions or bonuses, ICM systems automate this process using predefined rules 
(like sales targets, deal size, quota completion, etc.).

The users of Everstage can create incentive plans instantly with its easy-to-use plan builder, 
simulate before launch and track them: all without writing a single line of code. 
Everstage helps sales reps visualize the true power of incentives with personalized dashboards 
and payout simulators, and sales reps can forecast commissions for the deals in their pipeline.

salespeople are paid through commission, they receive a percentage of the sales revenue that they generate
Another common way salespeople are paid is through a base salary plus commission structure
That compensation structure is called a commission plan.


Accuracy: Automating the commission management process can significantly reduce the risk of errors and ensure accurate and timely payments to salespeople.
Efficiency: Automating commission management can help companies save time and resources
Transparency: Automated commission management systems provide greater transparency to salespeople,
Compliance: Automating commission management can help companies ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements
Data Analysis: Automated commission management systems can provide valuable insights into sales performance and commission payouts.



Everstage’s payroll system is a powerful tool that helps organizations manage their employees’ compensation plans efficiently. 
It allows employers to add employee details such as their base pay, variable pay, joining date, effective date, reporting manager details, commission plans, quotas, draws, and more.

The system also supports draw programs. Draw programs allow sales reps to receive a predetermined amount of money in advance, which is then deducted from their future commissions
This helps ensure that sales reps have the financial resources they need to continue selling and generating revenue for the company. 
Commission draws can be recoverable or non-recoverable, 
In case of a recoverable draw, the salesperson will be required to pay back the advance amount from their future commissions.


We offer several options for criteria, including simple, conditional, tier value-related, and quota-related criteria

Our payouts system enables businesses to manage their commission payouts, lock/freeze commissions,
useful for financial admins who need to review commissions before they are paid out

The settlement rules can be set up to pay out commissions immediately or to hold them until a specific date, 
such as the end of the quarter or fiscal year. 

In addition, our payouts system includes an arrear view, which allows businesses to view historical data on commission payouts


Our quotas page allows users to create quotas with ramping, which is especially useful for new hires. 
Ramping allows new payees to have a slower start with lower quotas,

Quota erosion takes into account any factors that may affect a salesperson’s ability to meet their targets, 
such as market conditions or product availability. beyond their control.
With quota erosion, users can adjust quotas downwards to account for any unforeseen circumstances


RBAC:
Our previous version of RBAC has some fixed roles such as admin, payee and viewer.
 The fixed number of roles came up with some shortcomings where we want to grant access to certain parts of our application. 
 So we have decided to create a new method where we could create as many custom roles as we want and assign them to users.

UI permissions are those that decide whether a user can see a particular module 
and what UI actions they can take in those modules

Data permissions help control what data users can see in the modules they have access to. 
The three basic configurations of data permissions are listed below.
Individual - users with this permission can see only their data in a specific module.
Team - their data along with reporting team data or data of users belonging to specific user groups in a specific module.
All - users with this permission can see data of all users in a specific modul

The requires_scope is the python decorator which checks for necessary permissions before accessing the API.
@requires_scope("manage:commissionplan")
class CommissionPlan(APIView):
    def post(self, request):
        # API call to create a new commission plan

Then the logged-in user’s permissions are taken up from the database which stores as user to roles mapping.

if user_has_not_access:
  return Response(
     status=status.HTTP_403_FORBIDDEN,
     message="Unauthorized access to commission plans"
  )




Our application uses an ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) process to retrieve data from Customer Relationship Management (CRM) systems 
like Salesforce, Hubspot where our clients deal related data would be stored, transform it into a more suitable format, 
and then load it into our PostgreSQL database for further analysis.

First, we extract data from the CRM systems by connecting to their APIs and retrieving the necessary data. 
The extracted data is then transformed into a format that is suitable for our data model. 
This involves cleaning and formatting the data, as well as performing any necessary calculations or aggregations.

Once the data is transformed, we use Snowflake, a cloud-based data warehousing platform, to load the data into our PostgreSQL database.
Finally, the data is loaded into our PostgreSQL database, where it can be further analyzed and used in commission calculation.






The way we expose the external data to the users by means of databooks and datasheets. 
We can think of each datasheet as a source of integration like Hubspot and each databook will have many datasheet



Hierarchy Cycle Detection and Prevention:

Whenever the reporting manager of an sales rep is getting changed, a check for the reporting hierarchy cycle should be done, 
and if a cycle is about to form because of the new change, we should respond to the user with an error message.
The values returned from the query should be modeled as a directed graph, 
then the hierarchy cycle should be detected using the DFS and error response should be thrown if a cycle is detected.

employee A is having two managers in two different time periods, 
B in the month of March and C from the April month. 
Consider the current date as March 15 on which a new change in the hierarchy is made, 
employee A is appointed as the manager for C. 
We shouldn’t be allowed to make such changes because 
even though C is not the current manager of A, he will eventually become a manager in the future

So if a reporting manager of an employee has to be changed, 
all the future records of the reporting hierarchy should be considered for cycle detection in the hierarchy.

Future reporting details given the current date
Hierarchy.objects.filter(
   client_id=client_id,
   knowledge_end_date__isnull=True,
   is_deleted=False,
).filter(
   Q(effective_end_date__isnull=True)|Q(effective_end_date__gt=dt)
).values("reporting_manager_email_id", "employee_email_id")



Access Control Issues:

This is a security threat to the application that leaks sensitive information due to incorrect configuration of Graphql API permissions.
Issue arose wherein certain sensitive APIs were erroneously assigned the VIEW:EVERSTAGE permission, 
a designation associated with the lowest level of access. 
Consequently, users possessing this minimal permission were able to interact with APIs, 
despite lacking adequate access privileges as these were the APIs that were called during startup of the application

To rectify this vulnerability, the solution necessitated the removal of the API calls from the Global store. 
Instead, a localized store was introduced within the specific pages that required access to the global data. 
By restructuring the architecture in this manner, API requests were deferred until a user navigated to the relevant page, 
ensuring that only authorized users could trigger these requests.

Previously, the application relied on preloading data during startup, guaranteeing its availability upon page navigation. 
With the transition to localized stores, this certainty was no longer assured. 
Consequently, components had to be refactored to gracefully handle scenarios where data retrieval might not be instantaneous, 
ensuring that the application remained stable even when data retrieval occurred post-page rendering.


Admin Audit Log

The Admin Console serves as the primary application utilized by administrators for the configuration of Everstage customers. 
Within this platform, various configurations pertaining to clients, referred to as meta info, are managed comprehensively. 
Among these configurations, the Auth0 setup plays a crucial role in determining user access to the application,
specifying which credentials grant login privileges. 
Administrators retain the ability to modify, remove, or add credentials as required.

This application empowers administrators to perform essential customer management tasks, 
including the addition, editing, and deletion of customer records, 
particularly when customers cease their engagement with the company. 
Moreover, administrators can configure email templates tailored for individual customers through the interface. 
These templates are customizable and can be shared across multiple customers, streamlining communication efforts.

This task fulfills the necessity for an auditing system in Admin Console capable of documenting changes in customer configurations. 
This serves the purpose of facilitating the diagnosis of issues stemming from application misbehavior attributed to improper customer configurations.

However, due to the absence of a record detailing which configurations were modified, by whom, and at what time, 
the process of debugging such issues became exceedingly challenging.

Key details logged include the specific client that was modified, the timestamp of the modification, 
the user responsible for the change, and the nature of the modification (Create, Update, Delete). 
Furthermore, the logging system incorporates a JSON Diff component, facilitating a detailed comparison between the state of the object before and after the modification. This comparison is presented in a tabular format, 
offering clarity regarding the exact changes made.

This endeavor involved delving deep into the backend systems, down to the service level, to pinpoint areas where modifications could occur. 
Subsequently, a logging mechanism was integrated to record these alterations before any data modifications took place.



Payout Filters:

Payouts are generated when the commission sync is run.
The commission sync fetches the data related to deals from the datasheet 
and runs the commission plan against those data to calculate commission payouts.


Developed a customizable RBAC framework, enabling creation of granular user roles with configurable UI visibility and data-access permissions, for improved flexibility and security

Redesigned the RBAC model to support fully customizable roles with modular UI and data permission controls,


Identified and resolved 15+ security vulnerabilities exposing sensitive GraphQL APIs to lowest-permission roles. 
Implemented a page-level store architecture to defer API calls until authorized page is loaded, ensuring only authorized users could access restricted data



Designed and implemented a dynamic hierarchy cycle detection mechanism using to detect and prevent manager–sales reps hierarchy cycles.
improving data integrity and preventing misconfigured org structures.



Developed a dashboard that enables Cloudwiry customers to hierarchize organisations and teams based on the cloud providers such as GCP, Azure, AWS. 
